README.md, before:

# Convoy GPS Tracking System

Enterprise-grade GPS tracking system with PostgreSQL partitioned tables, built with .NET 8, Dapper, and EF Core.

## ✨ Features

- 🗺️ **GPS Location Tracking** - Real-time location recording
- 📊 **PostgreSQL Partitioning** - Monthly partitions for scalability
- ⚡ **Hybrid ORM** - Dapper (partitioned tables) + EF Core (standard tables)
- 🔄 **Auto Partition Creation** - Background service automatically creates partitions
- 📏 **Distance Calculation** - Haversine formula for accurate GPS distance
- 📈 **Daily Statistics** - Automatic summary aggregation
- 🐳 **Docker Ready** - One-command deployment
- 🔐 **Production Ready** - Logging, health checks, error handling

---

## 🚀 Quick Start (Docker)

### 1. Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/convoy.git
cd convoy
```

### 2. Run with Docker Compose

```bash
docker-compose up -d --build
```

**That's it!** Database setup is automatic.

### 3. Access API

- **Swagger UI**: http://localhost:8080/swagger
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:8080/api/location/user/1/last?count=10

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Tech Stack

- **.NET 8** - Latest LTS
- **PostgreSQL 16** - With partitioning
- **Dapper** - High-performance queries for partitioned tables
- **EF Core 8** - ORM for standard tables
- **Npgsql** - PostgreSQL driver
- **Swagger/OpenAPI** - API documentation

### Project Structure

```
Convoy/
├── Convoy.Domain/          # Entities (User, Location)
├── Convoy.Data/            # Repositories, DbContext
│   ├── Dapper             # Location (partitioned)
│   └── EF Core            # User (standard)
├── Convoy.Service/         # Business logic, DTOs
│   ├── LocationService
│   ├── PartitionMaintenanceService
│   └── DatabaseInitializerService
├── Convoy.Api/             # Controllers, endpoints
├── Dockerfile              # API container
├── docker-compose.yml      # Dev environment
└── docker-compose.prod.yml # Production environment
```

### Database Schema

```sql
users                   -- Standard table (EF Core)
├── id (PK)
├── name
├── phone
└── timestamps

locations               -- Partitioned table (Dapper)
├── id, recorded_at (Composite PK)
├── user_id (FK)
├── latitude, longitude
├── accuracy, speed, heading, altitude
├── activity_type, activity_confidence
├── is_moving, battery_level
└── distance_from_previous

Partitions:
├── locations_11_2025  -- November 2025
├── locations_12_2025  -- December 2025
├── locations_01_2026  -- January 2026
└── ...                -- Auto-created monthly
```

---

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Docker Deployment](DOCKER-DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Complete Docker guide
- **[Quick Start](QUICK-START.md)** - Local development setup
- **[API Examples](API-EXAMPLES.http)** - Sample requests
- **[Setup Guide](SETUP.md)** - Manual setup (no Docker)
- **[Migrations Guide](MIGRATIONS-GUIDE.md)** - Database migrations

---

## 🔧 Local Development (Without Docker)

### Prerequisites

- .NET 8 SDK
- PostgreSQL 16
- Visual Studio 2022 / Rider / VS Code

### Setup

```bash
# 1. Install packages
dotnet restore

# 2. Setup database
psql -U postgres -d convoy_db -f database-setup.sql

# 3. Update connection string
# Edit: Convoy.Api/appsettings.json

# 4. Run
cd Convoy.Api
dotnet run
```

**Swagger**: https://localhost:5001/swagger

---

## 📝 API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| POST | `/api/location` | Create location |
| POST | `/api/location/batch` | Batch create |
| GET | `/api/location/user/{userId}` | Get user locations |
| GET | `/api/location/user/{userId}/last` | Get last N locations |
| GET | `/api/location/user/{userId}/daily-statistics` | Daily stats |
| GET | `/api/location/{id}` | Get by ID |

### Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/location \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "userId": 1,
    "recordedAt": "2025-12-18T10:00:00Z",
    "latitude": 41.311151,
    "longitude": 69.279737,
    "isMoving": true,
    "batteryLevel": 80
  }'
```

---

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

### Development

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Production

```bash
# 1. Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# 2. Edit .env with production values
nano .env

# 3. Deploy
docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

---

## 👥 Team Collaboration

### New Team Member Setup

```bash
# 1. Clone
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/convoy.git
cd convoy

# 2. Run
docker-compose up -d --build

# Done! No manual SQL needed.
```

### Making Changes

```bash
# 1. Make code changes
# 2. Rebuild
docker-compose up -d --build

# Or without Docker
dotnet build
dotnet run --project Convoy.Api
```

---

## 🔐 Security

- ✅ Password hashing (TODO: implement authentication)
- ✅ SQL injection prevention (Dapper parameterized queries)
- ✅ HTTPS support
- ✅ Environment variable secrets
- ⚠️ **Change default passwords in production!**

---

## 📊 Performance

- **Partitioning**: 10x faster queries on large datasets
- **Dapper**: Minimal overhead, raw SQL performance
- **Batch Insert**: Handle thousands of locations efficiently
- **Connection Pooling**: PostgreSQL native pooling

### Benchmarks (1M locations)

| Operation | Without Partitions | With Partitions |
|-----------|-------------------|-----------------|
| Insert | 250ms | 180ms |
| Query (1 month) | 3.5s | 320ms |
| Query (1 day) | 1.2s | 45ms |

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Docker containers not starting

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Database connection errors

```bash
# Check PostgreSQL
docker exec -it convoy-postgres pg_isready

# Check partitions
docker exec -it convoy-postgres psql -U postgres -d convoy_db \
  -c "SELECT tablename FROM pg_tables WHERE tablename LIKE 'locations_%';"
```

### API errors

```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs -f api

# Restart
docker-compose restart api
```

---

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Unit tests (TODO)
dotnet test

# Integration tests (TODO)
dotnet test --filter Category=Integration

# Load testing (TODO)
# Use k6, JMeter, or Apache Bench
```

---

## 📦 Production Checklist

- [ ] Change database password
- [ ] Configure HTTPS/SSL
- [ ] Set up reverse proxy (Nginx)
- [ ] Configure firewall
- [ ] Enable logging (Serilog)
- [ ] Set up monitoring (Prometheus/Grafana)
- [ ] Configure backups
- [ ] Add authentication (JWT)
- [ ] Rate limiting
- [ ] Health checks

---

## 🗺️ Roadmap

- [ ] JWT Authentication
- [ ] Real-time tracking (SignalR)
- [ ] Geofencing
- [ ] Route optimization
- [ ] Mobile app (Flutter)
- [ ] Admin dashboard
- [ ] Notification system
- [ ] Analytics & reporting

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

GPS Tracking System Team

---

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open Pull Request

---

## 🆘 Support

- **Issues**: https://github.com/your-repo/convoy/issues
- **Documentation**: See `/docs` folder
- **Email**: support@convoy.com

---

**Happy Tracking!** 🚗📍

Commit message:

docs: update README with authentication features

README.md, after:

# Convoy GPS Tracking System

Enterprise-grade GPS tracking system with PostgreSQL partitioned tables, built with .NET 8, Dapper, and EF Core.

## ✨ Features

- 🗺️ **GPS Location Tracking** - Real-time location recording
- 📊 **PostgreSQL Partitioning** - Monthly partitions for scalability
- ⚡ **Hybrid ORM** - Dapper (partitioned tables) + EF Core (standard tables)
- 🔄 **Auto Partition Creation** - Background service automatically creates partitions
- 📏 **Distance Calculation** - Haversine formula for accurate GPS distance
- 📈 **Daily Statistics** - Automatic summary aggregation
- 🔐 **OTP Authentication** - Secure phone-based authentication with JWT
- 🔄 **Auto User Sync** - PHP API integration for user management
- 🐳 **Docker Ready** - One-command deployment
- 🔐 **Production Ready** - Logging, health checks, error handling

---

## 🚀 Quick Start (Docker)

### 1. Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/convoy.git
cd convoy
```

### 2. Run with Docker Compose

```bash
docker-compose up -d --build
```

**That's it!** Database setup is automatic.

### 3. Access API

- **Swagger UI**: http://localhost:8080/swagger
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:8080/api/location/user/1/last?count=10

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Tech Stack

- **.NET 8** - Latest LTS
- **PostgreSQL 16** - With partitioning
- **Dapper** - High-performance queries for partitioned tables
- **EF Core 8** - ORM for standard tables
- **Npgsql** - PostgreSQL driver
- **Swagger/OpenAPI** - API documentation

### Project Structure

```
Convoy/
├── Convoy.Domain/          # Entities (User, Location)
├── Convoy.Data/            # Repositories, DbContext
│   ├── Dapper             # Location (partitioned)
│   └── EF Core            # User (standard)
├── Convoy.Service/         # Business logic, DTOs
│   ├── LocationService
│   ├── PartitionMaintenanceService
│   └── DatabaseInitializerService
├── Convoy.Api/             # Controllers, endpoints
├── Dockerfile              # API container
├── docker-compose.yml      # Dev environment
└── docker-compose.prod.yml # Production environment
```

### Database Schema

```sql
users                   -- Standard table (EF Core)
├── id (PK)
├── name
├── phone
└── timestamps

locations               -- Partitioned table (Dapper)
├── id, recorded_at (Composite PK)
├── user_id (FK)
├── latitude, longitude
├── accuracy, speed, heading, altitude
├── activity_type, activity_confidence
├── is_moving, battery_level
└── distance_from_previous

Partitions:
├── locations_11_2025  -- November 2025
├── locations_12_2025  -- December 2025
├── locations_01_2026  -- January 2026
└── ...                -- Auto-created monthly
```

---

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Docker Deployment](DOCKER-DEPLOYMENT.md)** - Complete Docker guide
- **[Quick Start](QUICK-START.md)** - Local development setup
- **[API Examples](API-EXAMPLES.http)** - Sample requests
- **[Setup Guide](SETUP.md)** - Manual setup (no Docker)
- **[Migrations Guide](MIGRATIONS-GUIDE.md)** - Database migrations

---

## 🔧 Local Development (Without Docker)

### Prerequisites

- .NET 8 SDK
- PostgreSQL 16
- Visual Studio 2022 / Rider / VS Code

### Setup

```bash
# 1. Install packages
dotnet restore

# 2. Setup database
psql -U postgres -d convoy_db -f database-setup.sql

# 3. Update connection string
# Edit: Convoy.Api/appsettings.json

# 4. Run
cd Convoy.Api
dotnet run
```

**Swagger**: https://localhost:5001/swagger

---

## 📝 API Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description |
|--------|----------|-------------|
| POST | `/api/location` | Create location |
| POST | `/api/location/batch` | Batch create |
| GET | `/api/location/user/{userId}` | Get user locations |
| GET | `/api/location/user/{userId}/last` | Get last N locations |
| GET | `/api/location/user/{userId}/daily-statistics` | Daily stats |
| GET | `/api/location/{id}` | Get by ID |

### Example Request

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/location \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "userId": 1,
    "recordedAt": "2025-12-18T10:00:00Z",
    "latitude": 41.311151,
    "longitude": 69.279737,
    "isMoving": true,
    "batteryLevel": 80
  }'
```

---

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

### Development

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### Production

```bash
# 1. Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# 2. Edit .env with production values
nano .env

# 3. Deploy
docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

---

## 👥 Team Collaboration

### New Team Member Setup

```bash
# 1. Clone
git clone https://github.com/your-repo/convoy.git
cd convoy

# 2. Run
docker-compose up -d --build

# Done! No manual SQL needed.
```

### Making Changes

```bash
# 1. Make code changes
# 2. Rebuild
docker-compose up -d --build

# Or without Docker
dotnet build
dotnet run --project Convoy.Api
```

---

## 🔐 Security

- ✅ Password hashing (TODO: implement authentication)
- ✅ SQL injection prevention (Dapper parameterized queries)
- ✅ HTTPS support
- ✅ Environment variable secrets
- ⚠️ **Change default passwords in production!**

---

## 📊 Performance

- **Partitioning**: 10x faster queries on large datasets
- **Dapper**: Minimal overhead, raw SQL performance
- **Batch Insert**: Handle thousands of locations efficiently
- **Connection Pooling**: PostgreSQL native pooling

### Benchmarks (1M locations)

| Operation | Without Partitions | With Partitions |
|-----------|-------------------|-----------------|
| Insert | 250ms | 180ms |
| Query (1 month) | 3.5s | 320ms |
| Query (1 day) | 1.2s | 45ms |

---

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Docker containers not starting

```bash
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Database connection errors

```bash
# Check PostgreSQL
docker exec -it convoy-postgres pg_isready

# Check partitions
docker exec -it convoy-postgres psql -U postgres -d convoy_db \
  -c "SELECT tablename FROM pg_tables WHERE tablename LIKE 'locations_%';"
```

### API errors

```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs -f api

# Restart
docker-compose restart api
```

---

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Unit tests (TODO)
dotnet test

# Integration tests (TODO)
dotnet test --filter Category=Integration

# Load testing (TODO)
# Use k6, JMeter, or Apache Bench
```

---

## 📦 Production Checklist

- [ ] Change database password
- [ ] Configure HTTPS/SSL
- [ ] Set up reverse proxy (Nginx)
- [ ] Configure firewall
- [ ] Enable logging (Serilog)
- [ ] Set up monitoring (Prometheus/Grafana)
- [ ] Configure backups
- [ ] Add authentication (JWT)
- [ ] Rate limiting
- [ ] Health checks

---

## 🗺️ Roadmap

- [ ] JWT Authentication
- [ ] Real-time tracking (SignalR)
- [ ] Geofencing
- [ ] Route optimization
- [ ] Mobile app (Flutter)
- [ ] Admin dashboard
- [ ] Notification system
- [ ] Analytics & reporting

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file

---

## 👨‍💻 Author

GPS Tracking System Team

---

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork repository
2. Create feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open Pull Request

---

## 🆘 Support

- **Issues**: https://github.com/your-repo/convoy/issues
- **Documentation**: See `/docs` folder
- **Email**: support@convoy.com

---

**Happy Tracking!** 🚗📍
